#summary Different ways of characterizing maturity models on the client side

= Introduction =

Maturity Models have popped up from time to time, and they attempt to measure a system's (or part of a system's) adherence to some standard, like the RESTful architectural style.

This page tries to detail different ways of measuring how well a client matches up on different axis.

= Details =

|| Axis || Level 0  || Level 1 || Level 2 || Level 3 ||
|| [http://www.bizcoder.com/index.php/2012/03/07/hypermedia-client-maturity-model/ URLs] || HTTP RPC (mints URLs) || Fragile, Fragmented || Supple || Reactive (uses links) ||
|| Media Types || Unused || ? || ? || Drives the client ||
|| Caching || No caching || ? || ? || "Browser" cache ||
|| Stateless || Stores state || ? || ? || Stateless ||
|| Code-on-demand || No code-on-demand || ? || ? || Does code-on-demand ||
|| Uniform interface || ? || ? || ? || Adheres strictly to to the uniform interface ||
|| Authentication || Proprietary? || Cookies? || OAuth? || BASIC/DIGEST? ||
|| Other axis || ? || ? || ? ||? ||

= About each axis =

== URLs ==

If the client mints all of its URLs itself, or if it uses links found in responses to achieve its goals.  If it uses links, then its 

== Media Types ==

Does the client know or care about media types?

=== Level 0 ===
Client doesn't know or care about media types, always parses the response according to a hard coded set of rules based on what the goal of the request was.

=== Level 3 ===

All responses are understood according to their media type, regardless of what state the client component might be in.  The client component handles all responses with the same grace.

== Caching ==

What does the client do when it comes to caching?

TODO: maybe split this up into two "axis" one for request headers, and the other for the client side cache?

=== Level 0 ===

The client itself employs no caches, and does not care about any caching headers

=== Level 3 ===

The client contains a browser cache that remembers the state of the client component to provide "back button" functionality.  The Cache-Control and Expires headers are honored.